---
title: Syllabus
author: Chaewon Ahn
date: 2021-07-08
category: Jekyll
layout: post
---

# LEARNING OBJECTIVES
The objective of the course is to equip students with the following tools and way of thinking:
-	Understand the epistemology of mapping, urban data and spatial analysis
-	Critically employ GIS to gather data, generate data, combine, spatially analyze and communicate spatial analysis.
-	Learn how to ask spatial questions.
-	Tell convincing data stories using spatial data and analytical tools on socio-spatial urban problems.
-	Acquire the skills to use GIS, R and web mapping (leaflet) tools jointly.

# PRE-REQUISITES FOR THE COURSE 
There are no pre-requisites for the course.

# COURSE STRUCTURE
The class is organized into two parts. The first part focuses on skill-building and the second part helps students to develop their first spatial analysis project. The first part of the course continues until week 8 with a focus on building the essential skills through lectures, lab sessions, and exercises. The second part of the course which starts at week 9 places a focus on the development of an individual spatial analysis project using GIS.

# COURSE FORMAT
Learning a new tool not only requires understanding of the concepts but also the hands-on experience to utilize them. The course meets every Friday between 9am to 12pm. The class time is divided into lectures & discussions, lab sessions, and group reviews. Each lecture is paired with a lab session where students gain hands-on experiences through a lab session that is designed to align with the lecture. The exercises reflect the lab session content, which will be reviewed with comments by the instructor and shared with peers during group reviews to facilitate peer-learning. The class covers data handling, projections, data joins, proximity analysis, network analysis, and basic spatial analysis of performing overlays, creating buffers, calculate statistics. Given the uncertainties around travel due to the COVID-19 measures of the Singaporean government, the classes are designed to also accommodate hybrid/remote learning scenarios.<br>
**-	Lectures & discussions:** The tools built in GIS embody particular positions associated with them. Each lecture introduces the tools, concepts and the critical reflections associated with the tools. In the discussion, students discuss the assigned readings that include theoretical foundations, critical reflections and also exemplar research that utilizes GIS.   <br>
**-	Group reviews:** The group review is a 15 min long breakout session scheduled at the beginning of the lab session in which students share how they approached their assignments from the previous week. The instructor provides feedback and clarifications on the common questions.<br>
**-	Lab sessions:** The lab sessions include the demonstration of the tool by the instructor, which is followed with a self-guided in-class exercise for the students to practice. Towards the end of the lab session, the assignments are given. 


[1]: https://pages.github.com
